+++
author="David Evans"
date= "2023-02-19"
linktitle="project3"
title="Project 3"
+++

# Project 3: Programming the Web

For this project, the main goal is for you to:

1. Learning about how computers are programmed, how programming languages are defined, and being able to read and write BNF grammars.
2. Getting some experience writing your own JavaScript code.
3. Adding dynamic behavior to your website.

For the first part of the assignment, you will replicate and extend the Countdown/Boom application we built in [Classes 15](/post/class15) and [16](/post/class16). The second part is some questions about language, BNF grammar, and JavaScript programming. For the third part, you will add a photo carousel to the website you build for [Project 2](/project2). The questions part is in the middle to encourage you not to leave this until the end, but you can do Part 2 in any order.

<div class="yellowbox">

**Collaboration and Resources.** For this assignment, we want everyone to create their own website so you should do this assignment and submit your answers to the questions on your own. If you wish, you may work together with one or two other students, including going through the steps here and helping each other with the questions, so long as everyone is creating their own website and understanding all the code you write and every answer you submimt. If you do work with others on this assignment, list them in your submission.

There are no restrictions on the resources you use for this assignment with one exception &mdash; it would violate both the spirit and the value of this assignment if you were to search the course github repository for completed versions of the code and just cut-and-paste that into your solution. This is not allowed, and if you cut-and-paste code without understanding it there is a high likelihood it would be very apparent that this was done, and it would be considered an honor violation. 

Feel free to search the web for helpful resources, use your favorite (or least favorite) chatbot, and examine source code from other web pages. If you do use any code generated by an AI assistant, though, you should be careful to fully understand it. This is important for the goals of this assignment, of course, but important even if you are just using code you find or get an AI assistant to generate for you to make something. Generated code is prone to containing errors, including ones that can result in security vulnerabilities, and can also be prone to [poisoning attacks](https://arxiv.org/abs/2301.02344) (like we talked about for image classifiers based on the Wall Street Journal article posted in [Class 16](/post/class16)).

</div>

## Getting Started

For this project, you will be building on the website you build for [Project 2](/project2). So, before starting this you need to have complete Project 2. It will be very helpful if you were able to get the local editing with Visual Studio Code to work since this will enable faster editing and testing of the JavaScript code you'll be writing for this project, but it is still possible (although we think quite painful!) to do your editing using the github web interface, and waiting until the site updates to do your testing.

JavaScript is built-in to all major web browsers, and many other devices these days including [drones](https://medium.com/maestral-solutions/programming-the-ar-drone-2-0-using-javascript-and-node-js-part-1-10bb946c60e5) and [tiny microcontrollers](https://www.espruino.com/). You don't need to install anything to start programming in JavaScript &mdash; just add code to an HTML file and load it into your web browser. You will want to use the Developer Tools in your browser to help debugging your code (mostly to be able to see things printed to the Console). You should already be familiar with this from Project 2, but just remember to right-click in the browser and select "Inspect".

## Part 1: Countdown to Boom

